>> Kevin Powell: Now one thing
that often surprises people,
is that sometimes users don't
have JavaScript enabled.
Sometimes it's through their own
choice and sometimes it's not.
And we have a decision that we
have to make in terms of how we're
gonna treat it if somebody
doesn't have JavaScript running.
There's a number of
reasons why they don't.
The general consensus is about 1%
of users, don't have JavaScript.
When they visit your site,
it could be a slow connection and
if a connection is really
slow on a mobile network,
the browser can decide on
its own just not to bother.
It could be they've disabled it.
There's all sorts of different reasons it
happens, it does happen from time to time.
Sometimes the situations are it's really
hard to come up with an alternative,
like with our mobile
navigation as an example.
Luckily there, if they're on
a hopefully on a larger screen,
at least they can still access
the navigation properly.
But in situations like that,
it can just be, it is what it is.
I don't like really saying that.
Maybe we could come up with a solution
to solve in those situations.
You could actually do it with
what we're doing now as well.
But with our filter,
there's actually a really easy way
that we could also deal with it.
And you could build fallbacks in if you
really wanted to keep your filtering
as well.
But for me, this is one of those like
super easy progressive enhancements,
where we could just hide the filters.
And then, use JavaScript to enable them.
The other one though is
using the CSS-only fallback.
I'm not gonna come in,
but if you wanted to,
we could add a no JS class to your body.
And then, if that's on there,
we're using the CSS filtering
option that I talked about earlier.
And then, if JavaScript's enabled,
then we get the JavaScript version of it.
The advantage with the JavaScript version
is we do have that message that's gonna be
popping up, if none of the filters match.
And the other advantages we're gonna see
when we start adding some animations and
more fun things, much more robust,
if you're using JavaScript for it.
So there's reasons to be
going down that route.
I'm just gonna go with the very simple
version that we have right here.
Where if we come back over to here,
in our document, as is one of those
things just to ask yourself, like,
when you're creating something,
just what would happen if
the user doesn't have JavaScript?
Maybe it just completely breaks it,
you might have an app that's completely
reliant on JavaScript, it happens.
But if you have a simple feature,
that just is better with JavaScript, and
it's really easy to check for
these things.
It's easy enough just to come on both
of these, and add a hidden attribute.
So by default, if a user comes on this
page, and for some reason JavaScript's not
working, they just don't know there
would be any filters in the first place.
They just have to look through them all,
they get that information, it's all there,
no problem whatsoever.
But we could come down, and
just say function enable
filtering, and
all this is doing is grabbing,
we already have them selected to the top,
it's our seasonalFilter.hidden = false,
and our edibleFilter.hidden = false.
And then we can just say enable
filtering at the bottom, like that.
Because that means, if the page loads the
JavaScript file,this function is firing,
it's removing those hidden attributes,
javaScript is working.
It's a really simple version of this,
just to sort of give an excuse
to talk about it a little bit.
It's something that a lot of
people don't think about, and
it really does depend on the feature.
But if it's a really simple thing like
this, it's an extra three lines or
something that would just improve the user
experience, cuz if a user got here and
they had the dropdowns and they start
using them and they're not working,
it can be frustrating.
So, it's just a nice little simple
alternative that you can build in for
what you're doing.
But again, it's really case by case
it depends on what you're building,
and you can do much bigger
enhancements than this,
where you're taking just some like a basic
list and turning it into a full tab.
Where you're reworking the DOM in
a very heavy way to make a tab system,
whereas without it, the JavaScript,
you're just getting a basic list.
So, you can do this at a lightweight
level, like we're looking at here, or
you can take it to a much bigger level
depending on what you feel like doing.